[Masculine robotic voice]
Hello everyone and welcome to the first Grin conference. Hello everyone and welcome to the
first Grin conference. I have to apologize for my appearance, or lack thereof, unless Alexie has
given me a Pokeman or Donald Trump avatar.
I’m sorry if listening to a computerized voice reproducing some unknown person’s words feels a
little awkward. I can guarantee you I don’t do this every day either. But, at least I’m here, typing
those words right now.

[Feminine robotic voice]
My name is Ignotus Peverell, I have a cool cape and I started Grin a little over two years now.
Grin is a cryptocurrency that values universal access and privacy highly, not only for today or
tomorrow, but for our old age and future generations. Grin will remain light and will keep
protecting your freedom. And I couldn’t be more proud of what we’ve accomplished and how far
we’ve come. We’re nearing the release of our main network now and this is already a very
exciting time. Everything is accelerating. From the front line it feels like the firehose is
unstoppable. There has never been a better time to get involved. So, I hope you find a way to do
that. You will be welcomed in with open arms.
All of the people you will see tonight are some of the most qualified on this planet. And I know
what I’m talking about, I was born in the fifteenth century, I’ve met a lot of people since then.
Creators are often cited first, but Grin has been built by the team that is about to be presenting to
you, only Antioch is missing. I’m not sure the opportunity to see so many of us will present itself
again, so make the most of it. I’m sure this toneless robotic voice is rather boring, so I will leave
you here. I’m just glad I picked a simple name like “Grin” for the project, instead of something
like “Ethereum,” “Aeternity,” or “Omisego.”
Before I go, I have to remind you that Grin needs donations to keep going. We chose the hard
route of a fair launch, but we won’t be able to make it by ourselves. This event is free to attend,
so, if there’s anything you can contribute, please do so to the best of your ability. The team will
share the address for our donation page.
You should now direct your attention toward Yeastplume. He is the longest standing committee
member on Grin beside me.

[Masculine voice with British accent]
Don’t leave the event without asking him where his pseudonym comes from. And, thank you
everyone for your patience. Robotic beings rule the world. Robotic solo tribute 0001 0001 0011.
